you can't stop it when a bubble pops
just hope you're standing far far away
real estate has been rising but what
isn't being looked into is why is this
happening what has caused this to occur
what can keep this sustained or is this
just a matter of time you came here for
the truth you've probably seen these
stores or something similar in your city
offering you a three hundred dollar loan
for only $20 offering you your payday
advance these stores seem to be creeping
up everywhere in Toronto meanwhile we
have individuals in the most debt they
have ever been this same scenario goes
for many cities around the world and I'd
like to know your thoughts of course put
them in the comments let's get into this
right away
looking at this Wall Street Journal
article
tapping your home equity for cash is big
again
Bank insists that the increased
borrowing doesn't herald a return to
housing bubble days they promise and of
course we can trust them further in the
article rising home prices are getting
borrowers comfortable again with the
idea of tapping into their homes for
cash home equity lines of credit and
cash out mortgage refinances to products
let customers sprint spend the windfall
of homeownership are back in vogue with
consumers everybody's feeling confident
because the market is rising the housing
prices are rising interest rates have
remained quite low historically and
everything is doing just fine of course
it's not exactly the case show you a
couple more things here the home equity
loan auto loans we're talking about
lines of credit and essentially the
ability to
take the value of your home pull it out
so that you can buy other things with it
this is a very very dangerous policy
that is allowed simply because the
belief is that real estate prices will
always rise over the long term that's
fine however many people will be
underwater and they will not be able to
pay back they don't realize that or it's
simply allowing as many people as
possible to get in and should there be
an issue don't worry the central bank
will be there to save the day
look at this borrowing builds home
equity line of credit origination
quarterly although we are not back into
the days of the financial crisis we have
hit highs we haven't seen since 2008 so
think about this when we had such a
serious issue back in 2008 already by
then the problems were very clear think
about how disastrous that was the
subprime crisis too much debt not enough
real economy and simply a bubble at its
peak it was the irrational exuberance
that Alan Greenspan talked about and
here we are today facing the same crisis
now what will be done about it
absolutely nothing in fact they will
help blow this up bigger and bigger and
bigger they're going to do everything
they can to keep it going but when it
happens it's going to be a lot worse
this is just one example home equity
loans are so dangerous they should never
be allowed if this is your asset you
have to pay it back that's just a matter
of fact because you put the burden on
everybody else when they do bailouts
it's coming out of everybody's pocket
that's the way the system works people
don't think of it like that but of
course that's the way it is I think that
this
it's simply another scheme to keep this
all going it just so happens that we are
in the financial crisis part two that's
my term I'm sticking to it it's very
clear and in some cases actually it's
much worse the case-shiller national
home price index up international
regularly here on this channel in this
regard we are worse off worse off than
before
you also have to factor in that the
prices have been rising significantly
faster than inflation their fake
inflation numbers there's no way to stop
this if they continue their policies of
low interest rates of easy monetary
policies look the central bank in the US
may not be printing but there's hundreds
of billions being printed into the
system every single month they make
their way around that's just the way it
is now this is one more indicator right
but let's look at this for a second this
happens to be about Canada but you can
pretty much attribute this to most
countries think about this this is our
if by the way the Fraser Institute okay
I will show you the actual polls I show
you the actual documentation the white
papers I show you the reports I don't
just give you the mainstream media news
I show you the reports to trillion
dollars in household debt is now
approximately 170 percent of household
disposable income think about that for
just a moment in 1990 when there was a
housing crisis a banking crisis the
household debt - in disposable income
90% imagine that prices were very high
at that time and yet that was
practically half
of what it is today the amount of that
they've allowed to accumulate is absurd
it's dangerous and it shows you that
this system is frail it's fragile
Canadians are regularly inundated with
news stories about policy concerned over
household debt these concerns however
what a joke this is look at this can be
seen to be overblown once we properly
account for the other side of the
balance sheet can you believe this a
complete propaganda piece when you tell
me that a hundred seventy percent of
your household disposable income is it's
insane but here we are so what will
happen well ultimately the consumers are
in over their heads they're taking out
the home equity loans taking all that
value all of that appreciation which you
know you're using the appreciation as a
way to suggest that you know everything
is just fine yet the appreciation is
what you're taking from you're taking
that equity your going to buy your
iPhone's and your your computers and
your cars and whatever and you're left
with an empty asset essentially there's
nothing there at least if somebody's
going to pay down on their mortgage debt
at the very least they have it like a
bank account it's there maybe they've
been living in that house for 40 years
houses paid off they don't really have
any savings in the bank but at least
they have their home but if you take all
that money out of the home you're in big
trouble at some point it might take five
years it might take ten years doesn't
matter at some point you're going to be
in trouble right now we have
historically low interest rates interest
rates just have to rise just a little
bit and when it comes time to renew your
mortgage to refinance you're going to be
in big trouble don't fall into this trap
I'm talking to people all the time about
this trap that they're in very big
mistake so that's all I wanted to get to
for this video if you found it
informative
please give me a thumbs up please
support me by subscribing to the YouTube
channel there are now as of this video
over 63 thousand subscribers I want to
say hello to each and every one of you
hello to all the new subscribers thank
you for clicking that button to
subscribe here I do videos you know once
even twice a day sometimes so check them
out there on various topics financial
real estate I get into even health
topics occasionally so there's lots to
be covered here on the channel stay
tuned for more if you want to leave me a
comment down below I'd appreciate that
as well take care let me just throw my
plug in at the end here if you found the
video informative I know you'll find my
books the money GPS and my new release
global economic collapse even more
informative the links are in the
description below where you can actually
flip through the books at Amazon take
care